# How-To: Using Attribute Aggregation – Vena Solutions

How-To: Using Attribute Aggregation
 
Why use this feature?
Attribute Aggr egation  refers to virtual dimension members that are generated by V ena and
offered as a choice when mapping P age, R ows or Columns. These members, when mapped,
represent the aggregate value of all members in a hierarchy that have a particular attribute
attached. 
In other words, it is an alternative to the manual effort of finding the sum of a R ow expression that
filters on one particular attribute. It can instead provide in one line, the total amount for a given
attribute. Attribute Aggregation members can also be used within dynamic expressions, and they
only provide a positive summation of the values.
 
How to
Create a new attr ibute
1. Navigate to the  Modeler  tab.
2. Navigate to the appropriate  data model .
Vena Support T eam
Updated  4 months ago26/12/2025, 14:26 How-To: Using Attribute Aggregation – Vena Solutions
https://support.venasolutions.com/hc/en-us/articles/204065029-How-To-Using-Attribute-Aggregation 1/4

3. Locate the dimension member you want to add an attribute to.
4. Right-click on the dimension member and select  Edit from the menu.
5. Select  + Add A ttribute. A drawer opens with a list of existing attributes.
6. Select  + Add A ttribute.
7. Enter an attribute name.
8. Select  + Add A ttribute to save the new attribute.
9. Select  Done  to close the drawer.26/12/2025, 14:26 How-To: Using Attribute Aggregation – Vena Solutions
https://support.venasolutions.com/hc/en-us/articles/204065029-How-To-Using-Attribute-Aggregation 2/4

 
Attach an attr ibute
1. Navigate to the  Modeler  tab.
2. Navigate to the appropriate  data model .
3. Locate the dimension member you want to add an attribute to.
4. Right-click on the dimension member and select  Edit from the menu.
5. Select the  check -box next to each attribute in the drop-down menu that you want to attach to
the dimension member.
6. Select  + Updat e to save your changes.
7. You can now choose an Attribute Aggregate member as the member choice when mapping
Page, R ows or Columns in your template.
 
Notes and limitations
You cannot have Line-Item Detail lines created for it.
You cannot have Cell Comments attached to aggregate data cells.26/12/2025, 14:26 How-To: Using Attribute Aggregation – Vena Solutions
https://support.venasolutions.com/hc/en-us/articles/204065029-How-To-Using-Attribute-Aggregation 3/4

You cannot drill transactions into this data.26/12/2025, 14:26 How-To: Using Attribute Aggregation – Vena Solutions
https://support.venasolutions.com/hc/en-us/articles/204065029-How-To-Using-Attribute-Aggregation 4/4

